.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Maik Broemme <mbroemme@plusserver.de>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.TH libmpq 3 2008-05-16 "The MoPaQ archive library"
.SH NAME
libmpq \- cross-platform C library for manipulating mpq archives.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
#include <mpq.h>
.sp
.BI "int32_t libmpq__block_unpacked_size("
.BI "        mpq_archive_s  *" "mpq_archive",
.BI "        uint32_t        " "file_number",
.BI "        uint32_t        " "block_number",
.BI "        off_t          *" "unpacked_size"
.BI ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Call \fBlibmpq__block_unpacked_size\fP() to get the unpacked size of a given block in the file. It will return a valid size for compressed and imploded blocks as well as stored only.
.LP
The \fBlibmpq__block_unpacked_size\fP() function takes as first argument the archive structure \fImpq_archive\fP which have to be allocated first and opened by \fBlibmpq__archive_open\fP(). The second argument \fIfile_number\fP is the number of file, the third argument \fIblock_number\fP is the number of block and the fourth argument is a reference to the uncompressed, exploded or stored size \fIunpacked_size\fP of block.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, a zero is returned and on error one of the following constants.
.TP
.B LIBMPQ_ERROR_EXIST
File or block does not exist in archive.
.TP
.B LIBMPQ_ERROR_OPEN
Block offset table was not opened by calling \fBlibmpq__block_open_offset\fP(), or it was closed by an \fBlibmpq__block_close_offset\fP() call.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libmpq__archive_unpacked_size (3),
.BR libmpq__file_unpacked_size (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Check documentation.
.TP
libmpq is (c) 2003-2008
.B Maik Broemme <mbroemme@plusserver.de>
.PP
The above e-mail address can be used to send bug reports, feedbacks or library enhancements.
