.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Maik Broemme <mbroemme@libmpq.org>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.TH libmpq 3 2011-11-06 "The MoPaQ archive library"
.SH NAME
libmpq \- cross-platform C library for manipulating mpq archives.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
#include <mpq.h>
.sp
.BI "int32_t libmpq__archive_open("
.BI "        mpq_archive_s **" "mpq_archive",
.BI "        const char     *" "mpq_filename",
.BI "        off_t           " "archive_offset"
.BI ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Call \fBlibmpq__archive_open\fP() to open a given mpq archive for later use to extract or manipulate files inside the archive. It will create all required file structures and you have to call \fBlibmpq__archive_close\fP() on success to clean the opened structures. On failure there is no need to call \fBlibmpq__archive_close\fP() because everything will be cleaned up.
.LP
The \fBlibmpq__archive_open\fP() function takes as first argument a reference to the archive structure \fImpq_archive\fP and will open the file \fImpq_filename\fP to the structure pointed to by \fImpq_archive\fP. The last argument, \fIarchive_offset\fP is normally -1, but can be specified when the archive offset is known, or not 512-byte aligned.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, *\fImpq_archive\fP is set to a new \fBmpq_archive_s\fP* and zero is returned, and on error one of the following constants is returned.
.TP
.B LIBMPQ_ERROR_OPEN
The given file could not be opened.
.TP
.B LIBMPQ_ERROR_MALLOC
Not enough memory for creating required structures.
.TP
.B LIBMPQ_ERROR_SEEK
Seeking in file failed.
.TP
.B LIBMPQ_ERROR_FORMAT
The given file is no valid mpq archive.
.TP
.B LIBMPQ_ERROR_READ
Reading in archive failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libmpq__archive_close (3),
.BR libmpq__archive_size_packed (3),
.BR libmpq__archive_size_unpacked (3),
.BR libmpq__archive_offset (3),
.BR libmpq__archive_version (3),
.BR libmpq__archive_files (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Check documentation.
.TP
libmpq is (c) 2003-2011
.B Maik Broemme <mbroemme@libmpq.org>
.PP
The above e-mail address can be used to send bug reports, feedbacks or library enhancements.
